title: Voxelius rewrite and maybe a video
description: I think it's a good time I begin building up a community
tags: development, voxelius
date: 2025-07-03

I began cleaning up the source tree which apparently just ends with a rewrite, although in my terms a "rewrite" isn't a particular "make from scratch" and more of a "find a better place to put this or that with occasional code styling changes and using better APIs", so it's rather a big **refactoring** rather than a _rewrite_

## Again?! Why???
Simple: my job. During the development of a wee-little full-scaled CAQ suite, I've found out that using something other than GLM for mathematics is suddenly a good idea. Enter Eigen, which is particularly cool because it provides a bunch of features I need by default (for instance, hyperplanes and AABBs of TEMPLATED STORAGE TYPE). Another good reason is that the entire source tree has become a big mess considering all the systems are intermingled with each other. So this rewrite-slash-refactoring is aimed at separating them more and utilizing some techniques employed in the master branch currently.  

## What's going to change
### Source tree hierarchy
I decided to make the entire engine/core of the game structured similar to how a _certain game engine_ is (obviously I am talking about Godot) with a strict separation into namespaces:  

- Core library (`vcore.lib`, subdirectory is `core`) contains stuff that is used throughout the entire project, perhaps even by command-line or graphical utilities that are to be shipped alongside game executables and content  
- Assets and other miscellaneous game content is still placed in `data` and is copied into the game distribution archives verbatim without much fuss  
- Dependencies are also still placed in the `deps` subdirectory, however now each library brings its own headers inside its own `include` directory; more than that, the `thirdpartylegalnotices.txt` (now `thirdparty.txt`) file is now automatically generated from all the dependency libraries present in the project  
- Game sources are still placed inside `game` (`game/client`, `game/server` and `game/shared`), however internally they are split into more subdirectories, just like in the old times of voxelius historic and voxelius early modern  
- The good old double-compiled `main.cc` returns, now not inside `launch` but inside `main` subdirectory alongside perhaps a bunch of stuff related to a new way of handling irrecoverable errors  
- Build scripts reside in the `scripts` subdirectory. New CMD.EXE batch files are provided for Windows alongside Git bash scripts for convenience.  

### Architecture
- Subsystems are split into different categories: `config` for configuration variable type implementations, `debug` for debugging subsystems, `io` for input-output (including file access, mouse, keyboard and window handling), `math` for math-related functions, `utils` for general-purpose functions that _might be_ used _somewhere_ across the project.
- Game systems will also be split into categories: `world` for world-related functionality including voxel registry and et cetera, `entity` for entity-related subsystems including components and entity factory, `gui` for on-screen graphics including Game UI and HUD elements

### Rendering
Won't change much, but I would like to keep most shaders compiled-in, but allow for some launch-time customization for post-processing effects if they would even become a thing.  

## What's after that?
You probably want to ask me why even do a rewrite at this point since you already had a bunch of public tests? The answer is quite trivial as well. I want to start expanding the community because I can't invest as much time into development as I did back in 2022; now I have a job and an apartment I have to take care of, so it's kind of a hassle to also full-time on a hobby game alone.  

## Where's the code?
For now it's private. When the time comes, will make a one huge fat commit that just syncs up the current repository (`untodesu/voxelius`) with the new source code, but as of now the game is in a working state, can be compiled and played (on the public test server) even though versions are different (protocol versions aren't)
